# Online-hotel-reservation-system-Object-Oriented-Design-and-Programming
The project has been done using java programming language. There were three parts of the assignment. The final part is the completed form of the project
The Online hotel reservation project follows object-oriented design principles. This project is implemented using Java.
In assignment-1 I have implemented the principles of remote method invocations using the Java-RMI model of distributed-object computing that supports multiple clients and server. Also, the system architecture needs to follow model-view-controller pattern. The system that implemented supports only login method.
In assignment-2 implemented Front-Controller Pattern and implemented the login functionality for administrator and customer by ensuring user authentication. According to the authentication the system provides different views for both types of the user using Authorization pattern for the online Hotel reservation Project. These two patterns were implemented on top of the proposed MVC system architecture provided in Assignment 1.
In assignment-3 Along with all other implemented pattern of the previous assignment, three interesting design patterns have been implemented in this assignment. A creational design pattern- Abstract factory pattern has been implemented for creating objects of different types of admin and customer views. Other two patters are behavioral design patterns – Command pattern and Template pattern. Using command pattern, user login information is showing in the system, after validating the user login. The template pattern has been implemented for executing a chain of essential actions in the csv file handler classes. The template method of the template pattern has been used in the controller classes. Along with these patterns, some general functionalities have been implemented for the online hotel reservation project, like save, update, delete lines in the data tables (csv file here). Different kinds of condition checking, and error handling have been done in this part as per requirement analysis.
Some other requirements are implemented as per the system requires – 
- Administrators/Employees/Guests Login & Registration 
- Browsing Rooms with different options (room type, least price wise) 
- Updating Room descriptions, Room availability (as well as room price) 
- Reservations/Cancellations/Modifications to reservations 
- Different types of checking like- available room checking before making a reservation, cannot cancel or modify a reservation if it is started, showing message like - need to pay amount if reservation needs to cancel before 24 hrs of the reservation date. Various error checking conditions have been done. 
